Jasmeen/580 rewrite contribute instructions (#1200)
ACCESS-Hive/access-hive.github.io: docs/about/contribute.md

{% set hive_docs_repo_name = "ACCESS-Hive-Docs" %}
{% set hive_docs_repo_url = "https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/" ~ hive_docs_repo_name %}

# How to Contribute

> ACCESS-Hive Docs is a resource for the Australian Community Climate and Earth System Simulator (ACCESS) community. We welcome all kinds of contributions! Whether you're fixing a typo, improving existing content, or adding new content - your input helps make the documentation more useful for the community.

Reviewer: We can set ACCESS as a one-off abbreviation here.
```suggestion
ACCESS-Hive Docs is a resource for the <abbr title="Australian Community Climate and Earth System Simulator">ACCESS</abbr> community. We welcome all kinds of contributions! Whether you're fixing a typo, improving existing content, or adding new content - your input helps make the documentation more useful for the community.
```

{% set hive_docs_repo_name = "ACCESS-Hive-Docs" %}

> {% set hive_docs_repo = "https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/" ~ "ACCESS-Hive-Docs" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% set hive_docs_repo_url = "https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/" ~ hive_docs_repo_name %}
```

Author: Accepted suggestions. Thanks heaps!

> # Contributing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to Contribute
```
The navigation title is this, which I prefer as the page title too (for the page url, i.e., the name of the file, `contributing` lookgs good)

Author: Accepted. Thanks heaps!

> **ACCESS-Hive Docs** is a community resource for users of the Australian Community Climate and Earth System Simulator (ACCESS). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACCESS-Hive Docs is a community resource for users of the Australian Community Climate and Earth System Simulator (ACCESS). 
```

Author: Thanks @atteggiani! Accepted suggestion, however I am not sure if you'd still be included as a co-author for this change. Have un-resolved the conversation for your thoughts :).

Author: Thanks for the thumbs up @atteggiani. Resolving this conversation.

Have an idea for improvement? We'd love to have your contributions onboard! Whether you're correcting a typo, improving existing content, or adding something new, every contribution helps make the documentation more useful for the community.

!!! tip

>     Not comfortable editing documentation? Simply reporting an [issue]({{hive_docs_repo}}/issues/new/choose) or suggesting an improvement is a valuable and appreciated contribution!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Not comfortable editing documentation? Simply reporting a typo or suggesting an improvement by opening an [issue]({{hive_docs_repo}}/issues/new/choose) is a valuable and appreciated contribution!
```

Author: Included suggestion. Thanks heaps!

>     Not comfortable editing documentation? Simply reporting a typo or suggesting an improvement by opening an [issue]({{hive_docs_repo}}/issues/new/choose) is a valuable and appreciated contribution!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Not comfortable editing documentation? Simply reporting a typo or suggesting an improvement by opening an [issue]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}/issues/new/choose) is a valuable and appreciated contribution!
```

Author: Accepted suggestions. Thanks heaps!

## How you can contribute

There are three ways to contribute:

> 1. **[Suggest a change or report a problem](#1-suggest-a-change-or-report-a-problem)** by opening a [GitHub issue]({{hive_docs_repo}}/issues/new/choose).

Reviewer: Numbering suggests sequential order (e.g.: first this, then that...).
These are not sequential but only different ways of contribution.
 
```suggestion
**[Suggest a change or report a problem](#github-issue)** by opening a [GitHub issue]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}/issues/new/choose).
```

Author: Thanks! Included suggestion.

> 2. **[Edit a page directly (via pencil icon)](#2-edit-a-page-directly)** - quick fixes to a single page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**[Edit a page directly](#direct-edit)** - quick fixes to a single page.
```

Author: Thanks @atteggiani! The formatting was a bit off after applying suggestions, hence replaced the ordered list with unordered (dashed) list. Happy to change as preferred.

> 3. **[Larger changes](#3-larger-changes)** - new pages, restructuring, or multi-file edits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**[Larger changes](#large-contribution)** - new pages, restructuring, or multi-file edits.
```

Author: Thanks! Applied suggestion.

All are equally welcome - feel free to choose whichever works best for you.

!!! info
    All contribution paths require a GitHub account — [sign up for free](https://github.com) if you don't have one.

---

> ### 1. Open a GitHub Issue

Reviewer: Renaming the anchor-id, so we can keep using the same even if we change the heading title (so we don't have to change all the anchors)
```suggestion
### Open a GitHub Issue {: #github-issue }
```

Author: Accepted suggestions. Thanks heaps!

<div class="card-container">

>     <a href="{{hive_docs_repo}}/issues/new/choose" class="horizontal-card" target="_blank">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <a href="{{hive_docs_repo_url}}/issues/new/choose" class="horizontal-card" target="_blank">
```

Author: Accepted suggestions. Thanks heaps!

{% set hive_docs_repo_name = "ACCESS-Hive-Docs" %}
{% set hive_docs_repo = "https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/" ~ "ACCESS-Hive-Docs" %}

# Contribute to ACCESS-Hive Docs

> We welcome contributions from the entire ACCESS Community. Whether you're fixing a typo, improving clarity, or adding new content - your input helps make the documentation better for everyone.

Reviewer 2: I suggest we update the first sentence - just so we don't imply that we'll only take contributions from within the ACCESS community. (I know this was the wording we agreed on earlier - just seeing it on the website made me view it differently!)

```suggestion
ACCESS-Hive Docs is a resource for the Australian Community Climate and Earth System Simulator (ACCESS) community. We welcome all kinds of contributions! Whether you're fixing a typo, improving clarity, or adding new content - your input helps make the documentation better for everyone.
```

Author: Thanks Paige! Accepted suggestion.

!!! tip

>     You don't need to edit the documentation yourself to contribute.

Reviewer 2: I think the sentence below is related to the tip, so I'd lump it all together.

```suggestion
    You don't need to edit the documentation yourself to contribute. Simply reporting an issue or suggesting an improvement is a valuable and appreciated contribution.
```

> Simply reporting an issue or suggesting an improvement is already a valuable and appreciated contribution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## How to contribute

> This documentation is written in Markdown format and is based on the [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) theme, which is built on top of [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) static site generator. There are two main ways to contribute:

Reviewer 2: I would put the information about how our site uses MkDocs further down on the page. If we think about most people coming to this page, they don't actually have to know anything about MkDocs to raise an issue or make a small change via the edit pencil. I think this is useful information to share, but we should think about where it's useful. Maybe under the section about how to make larger changes or run the docs locally?

Reviewer 2: Re-reading this, I think it's odd that we say that there are two (main) ways to contribute, and then list 3. I know I suggested this initially, but it isn't landing for me anymore. 😅 So I suggest we instead list the 3 options here.

```suggestion
There are three ways to contribute:
```

> 1. **Suggest a change or report a problem** by [opening an issue](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/issues/new/choose).

Reviewer 2: Add link to later in the page

```suggestion
1. **[Suggest a change or report a problem](#1-suggest-a-change-or-report-a-problem)** by [opening a GitHub issue](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/issues/new/choose).
```

> 2. **Edit a page directly** using the edit (pencil) icon on the top right.

Reviewer 2: Add third option, provide a quick reason for when to use each option, and add a link to lower on the page.

```suggestion
2. **[Edit a page directly (via pencil icon)](#2-edit-a-page-directly)** - quick fixes to a single page
3. **[Larger changes](#3-larger-changes)** - new pages, restructuring, or multi-file edits
```

Both are equally welcome - feel free to choose whichever works best for you.

> 

Reviewer 2: Just a thought - it might be good to add a little note that all of the ways of contributing require a GitHub account. Maybe something like:

```suggestion

!!! info "GitHub account required" 
    All contribution paths require a GitHub account — [sign up for free](https://github.com) if you don't have one.

```

Author: Thanks! Accepted.

### 1. Suggest a change or report a problem

> If you notice something that could be improved, you can [open an issue](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/issues/new/choose) to let us know.

Reviewer 2: Bringing back in wording from our previous version, as I don't think saying "if you notice something that could be improved" adds more info here. A suggestion below:

```suggestion
The easiest way to contribute is to [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/issues/new/choose).
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can add the button back in? It certainly highlights this option, which is what we want (we certainly want to encourage people to create issues!).

```suggestion

<div class="card-container">
    <a href="{{hive_docs_repo}}/issues/new?assignees=&labels=External&projects=&template=simple-issue-template.md&title=" class="horizontal-card" target="_blank">
        <div class="card-image-container">
            <img class="img-contain white-background" src="/assets/how-to-contribute-img.jpg">
        </div>
        <div class="card-text-container with-padding">
            <div class="bold">
                Raise a GitHub Issue!
            </div>
            <span class="with-padding">
                Suggest an idea, propose bug fixes, or flag missing content by raising a GitHub issue. 
            </span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

```

This is a great option if you:

- Spot a typo, error, or broken link.
- Find something confusing or unclear.
- Have an idea for improvement.
- Don't want to edit the page yourself.

> Once submitted, the ACCESS-NRI team (or other contributors) would be happy to take it from there.

Reviewer 2: Minor wording tweak

```suggestion
Once submitted, the ACCESS-NRI team (or other contributors) will be happy to take it from there.
```

Author: Updated wording, very much down for suggestions: 

> Once the issue has been submitted, you are welcome (and encouraged!) to make a suggested edit via a pull request to address your issue (see contributing options 2 or 3 below), otherwise the ACCESS-NRI team or other contributors will be happy to take it from there.

> ### 2. Edit a page

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 2. Edit a page directly
```

Author: Done.

> If you’d like to make the change yourself, you can edit pages directly using the edit (pencil) icon. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For quick fixes to an existing page (e.g. typos, wording update, broken links), you can edit the page directly in the browser using the pencil icon.
```

> When you click the edit (pencil) icon, GitHub will take you to the source file for that page. 

Reviewer 2: I think it would be clearer to have step 1 be "Click the pencil icon". Here is some suggested wording below - I'm adding it all here rather than updating each line below. 

```suggestion
#### If you are outside the ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation:

1. Click the **edit (pencil) icon** in the top-right corner of the page you want to edit. GitHub will prompt you to fork the repository.
2. Click **Fork this repository** 
to create your own copy on GitHub. GitHub will then open the file in edit mode.
3. Make your changes in the editor.
4. Scroll down to the **Commit changes** section.
5. Add a short description of what you changed.
6. Click **Propose changes**.
7. Click **Create pull request**. 
8. Add any additional context and then click **Submit**. 
```

Author: Thanks Paige! Have accepted this suggestions, have also updated the wording for this section quite a bit. Very much down for suggestions.

 
#### If you are outside ACCESS-NRI GitHub Organisation

1. You will be prompted to **fork the repository**   
2. Click **Fork this repository**   
3. GitHub will create your copy and open the file in edit mode   

Then: 
 
4. Make your changes in the editor   
5. Scroll down to the **Commit changes** section   
6. Add a short description of what you changed   
7. Click **Propose changes**   
8. Click **Create pull request**   
9. Add any additional context and submit   

> #### If you are in ACCESS-NRI

Reviewer 2: Again, suggested update having the first step be "Click the pencil icon". I also tried to better mirror the steps for those not in the org.

```suggestion
#### If you are in the ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation:

1. Click the **edit (pencil) icon** in the top-right corner of the page you want to edit. GitHub will prompt you to create a new branch.
2. Enter a branch name (default name is fine or see the tip below on how to name your branch). GitHub will then open the file in edit mode on your new branch.
3. Make your changes in the editor.
4. Scroll down to the **Commit changes** section.
5. Add a short description of what you changed.
6. Click **Propose changes**.
7. Click **Create pull request**. 
8. Add any additional context and then click **Submit**. 
```

Author: Have changed the steps to be not based on membership of ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation and have added tooltips instead. Happy to have it re-reviewed for this one.

 
1. You will be prompted to create a **new branch**   
2. Enter a branch name (or use the default)   
3. Make your changes   
4. Click **Propose changes**   
5. Open a pull request and add a short description 

> ### 3. Make larger changes (optional, advanced)

Reviewer 2: All contributions are optional, so we don't need to say that. 

And I don't like the term "advanced" in case that sounds daunting to some users. Perhaps we can instead indicate near the top of the section that this will take a bit more time than the previous options to indicate that it is a bit more involved? I don't have a suggestion at the moment, but can come up with one if we think this makes sense.

```suggestion
### 3. Make larger changes
```

Author: Accepted

> For adding new pages or making more complex updates, it can be easier to work on a local copy of the documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For adding new pages, restructuring, or making multi-file updates, the easiest approach is to work on a local copy of the documentation and then push your changes to GitHub when ready.
```

Author: Accepted suggestion.

> 

Reviewer 2: Placeholder to potentially add back in the text about Mkdocs. One suggestion below.

```suggestion

When making larger changes, it may be helpful to understand the structure of the Hive Docs site. This documentation is written in Markdown format and is based on the [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) theme, which is built on top of the [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) static site generator.

```

Author: Thankoo! Added.

> **For contributors outside ACCESS-NRI:** 

Reviewer 2: I know we mentioned that we might want to provide the specific steps here, or at least point to other online resources. I don't have the time at the moment, but this comment is a placeholder so we don't forget!

Author: Thanks for the suggestion! Have included screenshots and helper commands for each step.

    </a>
</div>

The easiest way to contribute is to open a [GitHub issue]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}/issues/new/choose). This is a great option if you:

- Spot a typo, error, or broken link.
- Find something confusing or unclear.
- Have an idea for improvement.
- Don't want to edit the page yourself.

> Once the issue has been submitted, you are welcome (and encouraged!) to make a suggested edit via a pull request to address your issue (see contributing options 2 or 3 below), otherwise the ACCESS-NRI team or other contributors will be happy to take it from there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've submitted the issue, you are welcome (and encouraged!) to address it yourself (see [edit a page](#direct-edit) or [make changes locally](#large-contribution) options below). Otherwise, the ACCESS-NRI team will handle it.
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion @atteggiani! Including hyperlinks to the respective sections is a great idea! I would keep the wording to be a bit more on the warmer side. 

Final version, very much down for thoughts: 

> Once you've submitted the issue, you are welcome (and encouraged! ) to address your issue (see [edit a page](#direct-edit) or [make changes locally](#large-contribution) options below), otherwise the ACCESS-NRI team or other contributors would be happy to take it from there.

Author: Addressed in commit here - https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/pull/1200/changes/b318691e8cb9a4c620dd6ce361a82351d37e61d9. Please feel free to unresolve this comment or open a new issue for any other wording suggestions. Thankoo!

> Once you've submitted the issue, you are welcome (and encouraged! ) to address your issue (see [edit a page](#direct-edit) or [make changes locally](#large-contribution) options below), otherwise the ACCESS-NRI team or other contributors would be happy to take it from there. 

Reviewer: I think it's the ACCESS-NRI team who is in charge of addressing the issues. Then, if some other contributor does it that's great, but I think that's additional information that only makes the sentence longer for no relevant information.

I also changed the repetition of "issue" and "take it from there", which doesn't sound professional to me.
```suggestion
Once you have submitted the issue, you are welcome (and encouraged!) to address it (see [edit a page](#direct-edit) or [make changes locally](#large-contribution) options below), otherwise the ACCESS-NRI team will be happy to handle it. 
```

Author: Looks good to me! Thanks!

---

### Edit a page directly {: #direct-edit }
For quick fixes to an existing page (e.g., typos, wording update, broken links), you can edit a page directly in your browser using the *pencil* icon in the top-right corner of the website.

- Click the **pencil icon ( :material-pencil: )** in the top-right corner of the page you want to edit.

> ![Edit Pencil Icon](/assets/contributing_page/edit_icon.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the **pencil icon ( :material-pencil: )** in the top-right corner of the page you want to edit.

    ![Edit Pencil Icon](/assets/contributing_page/edit_icon.png)
```

Author: Thanks heaps! This is implemented in this commit - https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/pull/1200/changes/9c9b966cb176ec4dc7ce23ecace6a5e2b5b28b2c. Rearranged the steps for the image to the be the top.

- Click _Fork this repository_.

!!! tip

>     If you have write access to the [{{hive_docs_repo_name}}]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}) repository, this step will not be required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click _Fork this repository_.

    !!! tip
        If you have write access to the [{{hive_docs_repo_name}}]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}) repository, this step will not be required.
```

Author: Thanks heaps! This is implemented in this commit - https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/pull/1200/changes/9c9b966cb176ec4dc7ce23ecace6a5e2b5b28b2c.

- Make your changes in the editor. 
- When you are satisfied with your changes, click on the _Commit changes..._ button (at the top-right corner), add a _Commit message_ and an optional _Extended description_, and click _Propose changes_. GitHub will automatically create a new branch (usually called `patch-1` by default) and prompt you a screen where you can compare the changes.

!!! danger
    If you have write access to the {{hive_docs_repo_name}} repository, **do not** select _Commit directly to the development branch_! Instead, create a new branch and open a pull request so the changes can be reviewed, discussed before they are added to the shared `development` branch.

- Click _Create pull request_. 

> - Add a title and details about the proposed changes and click _Create pull request_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Make your changes in the editor. 

4. When you are satisfied with your changes, click on the _Commit changes..._ button (at the top-right corner), add a _Commit message_ and an optional _Extended description_, and click _Propose changes_. GitHub will automatically create a new branch (usually called `patch-1` by default) and prompt you a screen where you can compare the changes.

    !!! danger
        If you have write access to the {{hive_docs_repo_name}} repository, **do not** select _Commit directly to the development branch_! Instead, create a new branch and open a pull request so the changes can be reviewed, discussed before they are added to the shared `development` branch.

5. Click _Create pull request_. 

6. Add a title and details about the proposed changes and click _Create pull request_.
```

Author: Thanks heaps @atteggiani! This is implemented in this commit - https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/pull/1200/changes/9c9b966cb176ec4dc7ce23ecace6a5e2b5b28b2c, hence resolving this conversation.

#### Step 1: Fork the repository

!!! info
    If you have write access to the [{{hive_docs_repo_name}}]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}) repository, you can skip this step.

A [GitHub fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/about-forks) is your own copy of the repository on GitHub where you can make changes without affecting the original (upstream) repository. These changes can then be merged back into the upstream repository via pull requests.

![Fork the repository](/assets/contributing_page/fork-repo.png)

1. Go to the [{{hive_docs_repo_name}}]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}) repository on GitHub. 
2. Click _Fork_ in the top-right corner.
3. Choose your GitHub account and repo name as the destination (we suggest to keep the original name to avoid confusions). 
4. Click _Create fork_.

This creates your own copy of the repository on GitHub. 

#### Step 2: Clone the repository

[Cloning a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository) creates a local copy of the repository on your computer.

> Then, if you have **forked** the repository, you can clone your fork by clicking the green **Code button** in the top-right corner of the repository page, copying the repository URL, and then running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then, if you have _forked_ the repository, you can clone your fork by clicking the green **Code** button in the top-right corner of the repository page, copying the repository URL, and then running the following command:
```
There's some inconsistencies with the use of bold and from our previous meeting I believe we agreed not to use it so much

Author: Thanks for catching these @flicj191! Accepted and applied this suggestion. Resolving now.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/ACCESS-Hive-Docs.git
```

If you are an ACCESS-NRI team member, you should clone the original ACCESS-Hive-Docs repository directly:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs.git
```

![Clone the repository](/assets/contributing_page/clone_repo.png)

??? note "Cloning with SSH"
    If you have already configured [SSH keys](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent), click the green **Code** button, select **SSH**, and copy the **SSH URL**. You can then clone the repository using:
    
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs.git
    ```

> Once the repository has been **cloned**, navigate into the repository directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the repository has been _cloned_, navigate into the repository directory.
```

Author: Thanks heaps! Accepted suggestion.

#### Step 3: Create a new branch
After cloning the repository locally, create a new branch to make your local changes:

```
git checkout -b your-branch-name
```

Creating a branch keeps your work separate from the main version of the documentation. 

#### Step 4: Make your changes
Open the directory in your editor (e.g. VS Code), ensure you are working on your new branch (VS Code lists your current branch in the bottom left of the window) and make your edits. You can check which files have been modified with:

```
git status
```

#### Step 5: [OPTIONAL] Preview your changes locally
!!! info 
    Local previews can be really handy to see your changes rendered how they would look on the website, but they require you do install software onto your computer. If you'd prefer to avoid software installation, you can skip this step and preview your branch after you push your changes to the Hive Docs repository via a pull request (by following the remaining steps).

Execute the following command to download and install Material MkDocs and all related plugins:

```

> pip install -r requirements.txt

Reviewer: Here we need to mention that they need to have Python installed (with `pip`).
I would suggest using `python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`, and mentioning something like:
```
!!! warning
    To run this command you need Python installed.  If you don't have it installed, please [download](https://www.python.org/downloads/) it.
```

Author: Thanks @atteggiani! Sounds good to me, have applied this suggestion in commit - a9436d7c2675d192c8728536bb6c7ded10f79d77.

> pip install -r requirements.txt

Reviewer 4: I had a go running this, but couldn't install this, even though I have pip and python installed on my local machine. Just thought I would let you know. Here is the error I got:

ERROR: pip's dependency resolver does not currently take into account all the packages that are installed. This behaviour is the source of the following dependency conflicts.
black 21.7b0 requires pathspec<1,>=0.8.1, but you have pathspec 1.1.1 which is incompatible.

Author: Thanks so much @theoellingsen for taking the time to test this out! You might have already tried this, just thought to mention it anyway - there is a tiny change in the instructions as per @atteggiani suggestion [here](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/pull/1200#discussion_r3708720350). 

Replacing: 

```pip install -r requirements.txt``` 

with 

```python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt```

---

For the specific `black` error, it looks like it expects a version greater than `0.8.1` and less than `1`, but the current version is `1.1.1`. Perhaps upgrading `black` could help in this case, using the command: 

```
pip install --upgrade black
```

```
mkdocs serve
```

This will start a local documentation server. Open the URL shown in your terminal, usually:

```
http://127.0.0.1:8000
```
    
#### Step 6: Review your changes
Review your changes before committing:

```
git diff
```

This helps confirm that only the intended changes will be included.

#### Step 7: Commit your changes
Stage the files you changed:

```
git add path/to/file.md
```

Or stage all modified files:

```
git add .
```

Commit your changes with a short description:

```
git commit -m "my commit description"
```

#### Step 8: Push your branch to GitHub
Once, you have committed your changes, push your branch to GitHub. The first time you push a new branch, run:

```
git push --set-upstream origin your-branch-name
```

The `--set-upstream` option links your local branch to the branch on GitHub. After this you can any future commits on the same branch with:

```
git push
```

#### Step 9: Open a pull request
After pushing your branch to remote, [create a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) using the following steps:

> 1. Go to the **repository** on GitHub (either the [main Hive Docs repository](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs) for ACCESS-NRI GitHub org members or your fork of that repository for others).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Go to the repository on GitHub (either the [main Hive Docs repository](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs) for ACCESS-NRI GitHub org members or your fork of that repository for others).
```
I don't think this needs bold, it's not a button or needs emphasis

Author: Thanks heaps! Accepted suggestion.

2. GitHub will usually display a message near the top of the window to create a pull request from your branch or fork.

> 3. Click **Compare & pull request**. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Click _Compare & pull request_. 
```
Step 1 and "edit a page directly" uses italics

Author: Thanks heaps! Accepted suggestion.

4. Add a title and detailed description explaining your changes. 

> 5. Click **Create pull request**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Click _Create pull request_.
```

Author: Thanks heaps! Accepted suggestion.

!!! tip
    Include a brief summary of what changed and why. If your changes relate to an existing issue, consider linking to it in the pull request description.

#### Step 10: Review the pull request preview

> After you open a pull request, a **preview version** of the documentation is automatically generated. Once the preview has been deployed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After you open a pull request, a preview version of the documentation is automatically generated. Once the preview has been built:
```
I don't think this needs bold. I believe the readthedocs wording is 'build' as it builds the docs from the PR code. Not a big deal I don't think

Author: Agree. Thanks heaps! Accepted suggestion.

> 1. Open the **preview link** which is added automatically at the bottom of the first comment of the pull request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Open the preview link which is added automatically at the bottom of the first comment of the pull request.
```
Again don't think this needs bold, not special words or anything

Author: Thanks! Accepted suggestion.

> 2. **Review** your changes in the linked preview documentation site.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Check your changes in the linked preview documentation site.
```
Dont think it should be bold as not a button or anything. I'm suggesting changing the word as usually someone else will "review" your changes in a PR workflow

Author: Agree. Thanks heaps! Accepted suggestion.

    </a>
</div>

The easiest way to contribute is to open a [GitHub issue]({{hive_docs_repo}}/issues/new/choose). This is a great option if you:

- Spot a typo, error, or broken link.
- Find something confusing or unclear.
- Have an idea for improvement.
- Don't want to edit the page yourself.

> Once the issue has been submitted, the **ACCESS-NRI team (or other contributors)** will be happy to take it from there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the issue has been submitted, you are welcome (and encouraged!) to make a suggested edit via a pull request to address your issue (see contributing options 2 or 3 below), otherwise the ACCESS-NRI team or other contributors will be happy to take it from there.
```

---

### 3. Make changes locally
For larger changes or updates across multiple pages, the easiest approach is to work on a local copy of the documentation and then push your changes to GitHub when ready. This documentation is written in Markdown format and is based on the [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) theme, which is built on top of the [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) static site generator.

!!!tip
    If you are not a member of the [ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI), you will need to **fork** the repository first. A **fork** is your own copy of the repository on GitHub where you can make changes before proposing them back to the main repository.

#### Step 1: Fork the repository

![Fork the repository](/assets/contributing_page/fork_repo.png)

If you are outside the [ACCESS-NRI GitHub](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI) organisation:

1. Go to the [ACCESS-Hive Docs]({{hive_docs_repo}}) repository on GitHub. 
2. Click **Fork** in the top-right corner.
3. Choose your GitHub account as the destination. 
4. Click **Create Fork**.

This creates your own copy of the repository. 

> !!! info 

Reviewer 2: I would move this info box to the start of this step.

Then, if you have **forked** the repository, you can clone your fork by clicking the green **Code button** in the top-right corner of the repository page, copying the repository URL, and then running the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/ACCESS-Hive-Docs.git
```

If you are an ACCESS-NRI team member, feel free to clone the main repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs.git
```

![Clone the repository](/assets/contributing_page/clone_repo.png)

??? note "Cloning with SSH"
    If you have already configured [SSH keys](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent), click the green **Code** button, select **SSH**, and copy the **SSH URL**. You can then clone the repository using:
    
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs.git
    ```

Once the repository has been **cloned**, navigate into the repository directory.

#### Step 3: Create a new branch

> After cloning the repository locally, create a new branch to make your local changes and then push it to GitHub:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After cloning the repository locally, create a new branch to make your local changes:
```

```
git checkout -b your-branch-name
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Creating a branch keeps your work separate from the main version of the documentation. 

Then push your branch to GitHub:

```

Author: Thanks Paige! Latest version suggests using `git status` as the next step, happy to hear suggestions.

```

> git push --set-upstream origin your-branch-name

Reviewer 2: Is this step necessary? Seems like we can remove pushing the branch to GitHub before any changes are made. Step 8 is when we have folks pushing their branch to GitHub, after they have made changes.

I suggest removing this.

Author: Thanks @paigem! The `--set-upstream` flag is not required to push code, but it can make the workflow much more easier.  When we create a new branch using `git checkout -b branchname`, git wouldn't know which remote branch it should pair with. Using `--set-upstream` creates a link between local and the remote branch. 

**Without `--set-upstream`**: 
We can still push our branch using - `git push origin branchname`. However, we'll need to:

- Type out the full `git push origin branchname` every single time for pushing new commits.
- Running a simple `git pull` will _fail_. Git will complain that it doesn't know which remote branch to fetch and merge from. 

**If we use it:**
Running `git push --set-upstream origin branchname` links the branches permanently. Once executed the first time, your workflow is:
- Just type `git push`.
- Type `git pull`.
- Running `git status` will show if the local branch is ahead or behind the remote version.

Very happy to skip it but this is something that I have been using and it has saved me a lot of typing :). 

> Ref: Git Documentation, could also use `git push -u origin branchname` as a shortcut.

Author: Please ignore my comment above. I didn’t realise there was another suggestion further down proposing to include this under the `git push` section.

```

> Creating a branch keeps your work separate from the main version of the documentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Sorry couldn't remember why we ended up deciding to remove this line?

#### Step 4: Make your changes

> Open the repository in your editor (ex. VSCode) and make your changes. You can check which files have been modified with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the directory in your editor (e.g. VS Code), ensure you are working on your new branch (VS Code lists your current branch in the bottom left of the window) and make your edits. You can check which files have been modified with:
```

```
git status
```

> #### Step 5: Preview your changes locally

Reviewer 2: I would emphasize that this step is optional. Especially with our move to RTD, I believe that PR previews can happen for any PR, regardless of whether a contributor is in the ACCESS-NRI GitHub org or not.

```suggestion
#### Step 5: [OPTIONAL] Preview your changes locally
```

> Before submitting your changes, you can preview them locally using the command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!!! info 
    Local previews can be really handy to see your changes rendered how they would look on the website, but they require you do install software onto your computer. If you'd prefer to avoid software installation, you can skip this step and preview your branch after you push your changes to the Hive Docs repository via a pull request (by following the remaining steps).

Before submitting your changes, you can preview them locally using the command:
```

```
mkdocs serve
```

This will start a local documentation server. Open the URL shown in your terminal, usually:

```
http://127.0.0.1:8000
```

> ??? warning "If `mkdocs serve` command is not working"

Reviewer 2: I suggest making the contents of this warning the first step under Step 5. New contributors will almost always need to install the software (I assume?).

We could add a comment that this step only needs to be done once.

    Execute the following command to download and install Material MkDocs and all related plugins:

    ```
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ``` 

#### Step 6: Review your changes
Review your changes before committing:

```
git diff
```

This helps confirm that only the intended changes will be included.

#### Step 7: Commit your changes
Stage the files you changed:

```
git add path/to/file.md
```

Or stage all modified files:

```
git add .
```

Commit your changes with a short description:

```
git commit -m "my commit description"
```

#### Step 8: Push your branch to GitHub
Push your branch to GitHub using the command:

```

> git push origin your-branch-name

Reviewer 2: If we remove the `git push` line in step 3 (see my comment):

```suggestion
git push  --set-upstream origin your-branch-name
```

Reviewer 2: Or maybe we have a toggle box that says "If this is the first time you push your changes to GitHub, add `--set-upstream`. And then just have `git push origin...` as the primary command.

Author: ~~I'd suggest keeping `--set-upstream` as an immediate next step after the branch is created. Happy to hear more about toggle box though if we think that'd be helpful :)~~

_Edit:_ 
Have made some changes to include `--set-upstream` flag in the push section. Very much down for suggestions if that's not clear.

```

#### Step 9: Open a pull request
After pushing your branch to remote, [create a pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request) using the following steps:

> 1. Go to the repository on GitHub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to the repository on GitHub (either the [main Hive Docs repository](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs) for ACCESS-NRI GitHub org members or your fork of that repository for others).
```

Author: Thanks heaps! Included this suggestion!

> 2. GitHub will usually display a prompt to create a pull request from your branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. GitHub will usually display a message near the top of the window to create a pull request from your branch or fork.
```

Author: Thanks heaps! Applied.

3. Click **Compare & pull request**. 
4. Add a title and detailed description explaining your changes. 
5. Click **Create pull request**.

!!! tip
    Include a brief summary of what changed and why. If your changes relate to an existing issue, consider linking to it in the pull request description.

#### Step 10: Review the pull request preview

> ![PR Preview Image](/assets/contributing_page/pr_preview.png)

Reviewer 2: My sense is that it might be better to have a screenshot once the PR Preview has been deployed. But, I would guess that this might look different once we transition to RTD, so probably not worth updating now.

Author: Good point. Will remove this screenshot, happy to add it back later.

Author: Updated these instructions with the pr preview links text added at the bottom of the first comment.

After you open a pull request, a **preview version** of the documentation is automatically generated. Once the preview has been deployed:

1. Open the **preview link** from the pull request checks, comments, or status checks.

> 2. **Review** your changes in the rendered documentation site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Review** your changes in the linked preview documentation site.
```

Author: Thanks heaps! Added!

!!! note

>     The pull request preview shows how your changes will appear before they are merged, making it a great way to catch formatting or rendering issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The pull request preview shows how your changes will appear before they are added to the public website, making it a great way to catch formatting or rendering issues.
```

Author: Included suggestion. Thanks heaps!

## Checklist
??? info "Creating issues"
    Creating clear and well-labelled issues helps contributors to quickly understand the type, purpose, and urgency of a task. 

    1. Use a clear and descriptive title that summarises the issue.

    2. Include enough context for others to understand the problem. 

    3. Keep issues focused on a single topic where possible. Smaller, targeted issues are generally easier to discuss and resolve.

??? info "Branching Workflows and Naming"

>     This repository currently uses two primary branches - `main` and `development`. `main` is the production-ready branch, and `development` is the staging branch where latest changes are pushed before merging into `main` branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The Hive Docs repository currently uses two primary branches: `main` and `development`. `main` is the production-ready branch (what is visible on the public website), and `development` is the staging branch where latest changes are pushed and previewed.
```

Author: Applied. Thankoo!

    Contributors should generally:

>     - Create a feature branch from `development`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Create a branch from `development`.
```

Author: Done. Resolved. Thanks heaps!

>     - Open pull requests targeting to `development`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Open pull requests with `development` as the target. 
```

>     The `development` branch is automatically merged into `main` daily. This reduces the risk to include breaking changes into the production branch. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `development` branch is automatically merged into `main` daily. This reduces the risk of having breaking changes affect the live website. 
```

Author: Included suggestion. Thanks heaps!

>     For branch naming, using consistent branch names makes it easier to identify the purpose of a branch. Recommended naming patterns include:

Reviewer 2: I think we maybe put this as a separate toggle down box called "How to name your branch" (or something similar).

```suggestion
    Branch naming: to make it easier to identify the purpose of a branch, we recommend the following branch name structure:
```

Author: Done.

    - name/issue-number/short-description
    
    Example:
    - john/24/add-cosima-tutorial

>     Use short, descriptive, and lowercase names separated by hyphens.

Reviewer 2: I think this point gets across from the example just above, so I think we can remove.

```suggestion
```

Author: Included suggestion. Thanks heaps!

??? info "Pull Requests"
    Well-documented pull requests help reviewers understand the intent of changes and reduces the turnaround time of the review. 

    When opening a PR:
    - Provide a clear summary of the changes.
    - Explain *why* the changes were made, not just *what* changed.
    - Link related issues or discussions where relevant.
    - Include screenshots or previews if applicable.

    Smaller and focused PRs are generally preferred over very large changes, as they are easier to review, test and merge.

    Before submitting a PR, contributors are encouraged to:
    - Check formatting and links.
    - Preview documentation changes on the PR previews generated just after creating a PR.
    - Check GitHub CI is passing all checks. 

## Need help?

> 1. For any questions, we'd be happy to answer questions on [ACCESS-Hive Forum](https://forum.access-hive.org.au). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. For any questions, [create a help request on the ACCESS-Hive Forum](https://forum.access-hive.org.au/new-topic?&body=%3Cdiv%20data-theme-toc%3D%22true%22%3E%3C%2Fdiv%3E%0A%0A%3C!--%20These%20are%20comments%20and%20not%20visible%20once%20you%20post.%20Ignore%20or%20delete%20sections%20if%20not%20relevant%20--%3E%0A%0A%3C!--%20Choose%20an%20appropriate%20category.%20If%20not%20sure%2C%20leave%20as%20General%20--%3E%0A%0A%23%23%20Description%20of%20request%3A%0A%0A%23%23%20Environment%3A%0A%0A%3C!--%20NCI%3F%20ARE%3F%20Gadi%20login%20node%3F%20PBS%20job%3F%20--%3E%0A%0A%3C!--%20List%20software%20versions%20--%3E%0A%0A%23%23%20What%20executed%3A%0A%0A%3C!--%20Copy%20and%20paste%20any%20commands%20and%20output%20in%20a%20code%20block%20--%3E%0A%3C!--%20For%20code%20you%20are%20writing%2C%20prepare%20a%20minimal%20reproducible%20example%20(https%3A%2F%2Fforum.access-hive.org.au%2Fdocs%3Ftopic%3D843)%20--%3E%0A%0A%23%23%20Actual%20results%3A%0A%0A%3C!--%20Copy%20full%20error%20messages%20--%3E%0A%0A%23%23%20Expected%20results%3A%0A%0A%23%23%20Additional%20info%3A&category_id=4&tags=help)!
```

Author: Included suggestion. Thanks heaps!

> 2. For reporting a bug or suggesting a change, feel free to write an issue.

Reviewer 2: This repeats what is already stated on this page.

```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could link to a git tutorial or any other external resource that might be helpful?

E.g:

```suggestion
2. For a more in-depth guide to using GitHub and git, see the [Project Pythia "Getting Started with GitHub" tutorial](https://foundations.projectpythia.org/foundations/getting-started-github/).
```

Author: Included suggestion. Thanks heaps!

    </a>
</div>

The easiest way to contribute is to open a [GitHub issue]({{hive_docs_repo}}/issues/new/choose). This is a great option if you:

- Spot a typo, error, or broken link.
- Find something confusing or unclear.
- Have an idea for improvement.
- Don't want to edit the page yourself.

Once the issue has been submitted, you are welcome (and encouraged!) to make a suggested edit via a pull request to address your issue (see contributing options 2 or 3 below), otherwise the ACCESS-NRI team or other contributors will be happy to take it from there.

---

### 2. Edit a page directly
For quick updates to an existing page, you can edit it directly in your browser using the *pencil* icon in the top-right corner of the website.

- Click the **edit (pencil) icon** in the top-right corner of the page you want to edit.

![Edit Pencil Icon](/assets/contributing_page/1_edit_icon2.png)

> - If you are outside the [ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI), GitHub will ask you to **fork the repository**. If you are an ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation member, GitHub will ask you to **create a new branch**.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- If you are outside the [ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI), GitHub will ask you to **fork the repository**.
```
The ACCESS-NRI members creating branch was moved to the correct place down in the next steps.

Author: Thanks so much, @mvgarcia! Just thought to mention here as well, this section has been reworked into one set of step-by-step instructions, rather than being split into the “If you are part of the ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation…” and “If you are not…” sections, mostly to make the process flow more naturally, with tooltips along the way to explain when certain steps can be skipped. Happy to hear more if that's flowing clearly. :)

- Make your changes in the editor. 

> - Scroll down to the **Commit changes**, add a short description, and click **Propose changes**. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Scroll down to the **Commit changes**, add a shortcommit message, and click **Propose changes**.  If you are an ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation member, GitHub will ask you to **create a new branch**
```

The added step is only for ACCESS-NRI members. You are asked to create a branch after clicking commit, instead of before editing the text.

Reviewer 2: Just correcting a typo (missed space) and updating the language as I think that GitHub automatically creates the branch, rather than asking the user to create one explicitly.

```suggestion
- Scroll down to the **Commit changes**, add a short commit message, and click **Propose changes**. If you are an ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation member, GitHub will automatically **create a new branch** for you.
```

Author: Thanks heaps @mvgarcia  @paigem! These instructions have been reworded, very much down to suggestions for the latest wording and grouping of sections.

---

### 3. Make changes locally
For larger changes or updates across multiple pages, the easiest approach is to work on a local copy of the documentation and then push your changes to GitHub when ready. This documentation is written in Markdown format and is based on the [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) theme, which is built on top of the [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) static site generator.

!!!tip
    If you are not a member of the [ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI), you will need to **fork** the repository first. A **fork** is your own copy of the repository on GitHub where you can make changes before proposing them back to the main repository.

#### Step 1: Fork the repository

![Fork the repository](/assets/contributing_page/fork_repo.png)

If you are outside the [ACCESS-NRI GitHub](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI) organisation:

1. Go to the [ACCESS-Hive Docs]({{hive_docs_repo}}) repository on GitHub. 
2. Click **Fork** in the top-right corner.
3. Choose your GitHub account as the destination. 
4. Click **Create Fork**.

This creates your own copy of the repository. 

!!! info 

>     [ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI) members can **skip this step** and clone the main repository directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI) members can **skip this step** and clone the original ACCESS-Hive-Docs repository directly.
```

Author: Thankoo! Added this suggestions.

#### Step 2: Clone the repository

**Cloning** creates a local copy of the repository on your computer. Before cloning, open a **terminal** and navigate to the directory where you'd like the repository to be downloaded. 

Then, if you have **forked** the repository, you can clone your fork by clicking the green **Code button** in the top-right corner of the repository page, copying the repository URL, and then running the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/ACCESS-Hive-Docs.git
```

> If you are an ACCESS-NRI team member, feel free to clone the main repository:

Reviewer 5: Using 'main repository' could be confused with main branch. I cloned the repository from the main branch instead of the development branch. I would suggest to change the word 'main' so it is less ambiguous. Maybe it would be relevant to change it in other places in this page as well.

Reviewer 2: This is a really good point - thanks for pointing this out @mvgarcia!  

```suggestion
If you are an ACCESS-NRI team member, you should clone the original ACCESS-Hive-Docs repository directly:
```

Author: Thanks so much! Included suggestion.

    </a>
</div>

> The easiest way to contribute is to open a [GitHub issue]({{hive_docs_repo}}/issues/new/choose). This is a great option if you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to contribute is to open a [GitHub issue]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}/issues/new/choose). This is a great option if you:
```

Author: Accepted suggestions. Thanks heaps!

- Spot a typo, error, or broken link.
- Find something confusing or unclear.
- Have an idea for improvement.
- Don't want to edit the page yourself.

Once the issue has been submitted, you are welcome (and encouraged!) to make a suggested edit via a pull request to address your issue (see contributing options 2 or 3 below), otherwise the ACCESS-NRI team or other contributors will be happy to take it from there.

---

> ### 2. Edit a page directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Edit a page directly {: #direct-edit }
```

Author: Accepted suggestions. Thanks heaps!

For quick updates to an existing page, you can edit it directly in your browser using the *pencil* icon in the top-right corner of the website.

> - Click the **edit (pencil) icon** in the top-right corner of the page you want to edit.

Reviewer 6: Great to see this page coming together!

@atteggiani mentioned a while back that he had a clever way of only needing people to click the pencil once? (Currently in other instances, one needs to click it twice [1])

It looks like that has been implemented here? If that's the case, can we please do this in our other mkdoc examples. Not ideal if we end up having a different experience across the different websites.

[1]
> The simplest and fastest way to make a change to an existing page is to click the edit "pencil" on the top-right corner. This will go to the relevant GitHub markdown file and clicking the top-right pencil again on GitHub will allow you to edit the file.
[source](https://access-om3-configs.access-hive.org.au/latest/contributing/Edit-Config-Docs/#access-om3-configs-documentation-contributions-welcome)

Reviewer: We will implement this in all documentation websites with a more structured intra-documentation structure plan.

Author: Thanks @chrisb13! Great suggestion, noted in issue https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/documentation-infra/issues/16. As Davide mentioned, this might be something we could address in a separate PR.

> - Click the **edit (pencil) icon** in the top-right corner of the page you want to edit.

Reviewer: These are sequential steps, so they need numbering
```suggestion
1. Click the **pencil icon ( :material-pencil: )** in the top-right corner of the page you want to edit.
```

Author: Implemented both these suggestions. Numbering suggestion implemented in commit here - https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/pull/1200/changes/9c9b966cb176ec4dc7ce23ecace6a5e2b5b28b2c. Hence resolving this conversation.

> ![Edit Pencil Icon](/assets/contributing_page/1_edit_icon2.png)

Reviewer: This image seems too blurry. 
Can we try having a simple sharp image and only ouline the pencil icon with the yellow circle/box?

Author: The image has been updated with - yellow box around the edit pencil icon.

Author: Completed hence resolving conversation.

> - If you are outside the [ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI), GitHub will ask you to **fork the repository**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click _Fork this repository_.
   !!! tip
       If you have write access to the [{{hive_docs_repo_name}}]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}) repository, this step will not be required.
```

Author: ~~There isn’t actually a button called *Fork this repository* to click. I suppose the intention is just to make the step a little clearer. Would it still be okay to keep the heading as **Step 1: Fork this repository** and then explain the exact steps in the description below?~~

Please ignore this comment, I was looking at the wrong step. Accepted and applied suggestion. Thanks!

Reviewer 7: There is!
<img width="806" height="198" alt="Screenshot 2026-07-27 at 1 53 34 pm" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/918ff36f-840b-48a0-9355-ec1d67d58b14" />

> - Make your changes in the editor. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Make your changes in the editor. 
```

Author: Thanks for catching this, @atteggiani! There are a few tooltips within the numbered list, and it looks like the list starts again from 1 after each tooltip. I’ve changed it to a dashed list for now, but very happy to hear any thoughts on this 🙂

Reviewer: All text within the number list should be indented with 4 spaces. That way the following numbered list will follow the numbering.

Author: Thanks heaps! That works. Applied suggestion in the commit here - https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/pull/1200/changes/9c9b966cb176ec4dc7ce23ecace6a5e2b5b28b2c

Author: Resolving this conversation.

> - Scroll down to the **Commit changes**, add a short commit message, and click **Propose changes**. If you are an ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation member, GitHub will automatically **create a new branch** for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. When you are satisfied with your changes, click on the _Commit changes..._ button (at the top-right corner), add a _Commit message_ and an optional _Extended description_, and click _Propose changes_. GitHub will automatically create a new branch (usually called `patch-1` by default) and prompt you a screen where you can compare the changes.

!!! danger
    If you have write access to the {{hive_docs_repo_name}} repository, **DO NOT** select _Commit directly to the development branch_!
```

Author: Thanks @atteggiani! Really liked the wording! Have included everything except `DO NOT` in caps. Was a bit iffy on using CAPS which reads a bit loud and scary for someone new to Git. Have suggested to use bold instead or happy to hear thoughts on this...

Also, it might be worth explaining why we suggest this way. Reworded the sentence to be:

> If you have write access to the {{hive_docs_repo_name}} repository, **do not** select _Commit directly to the development branch_! Instead, create a new branch and open a pull request so the changes can be reviewed, discussed before they are added to the shared `development` branch.

---

Follow up thought from this - could we setup branch protection for `development` branch to avoid people committing directly, and instead use PRs? I suppose these rules would be similar to `main` branch protection rules. That way we could skip the above danger tooltip.

Reviewer: The default dialog selects something like "create a new branch..." (which is the option we would like) by default. 
I added the admonition to stress the fact that users shouldn't change that selection to "commit directly to the `development` branch.

In this case, I don't think adding more specific information is good actually. I think the main reason for the admonition should be to let the users know they should not select that option. The reasons behind that are too much details in my opinion, and they are already creating a new branch (which we said already), so I wouldn't specify it again.

Author: Thanks for clarifying @atteggiani! Sorry should have made myself a bit more clear. Would it be worth setting up branch protection rules for the `development` branch, so that changes need to go through a pull request rather than being committed directly? Very happy to address this in a separate thread. Created issue #1244 for discussion.

Author: Accepted the above changes for now, hence resolving conversation.

Reviewer: As mentioned in [this comment](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI/ACCESS-Hive-Docs/issues/1244#issuecomment-5161399519), branch protection for `development` is already in place. 
Therefore, if we don't want to include the `danger` admonition that's fine.

> - Click **Create pull request**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click _Create pull request_. 
```

Author: Accepted suggestion! Thanks heaps!

> - Add details about the proposed changes and click **Submit**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Add a title and details about the proposed changes and click _Create pull request_.
```

Author: Accepted suggestion. Thanks!

---

> ### 3. Make changes locally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Make changes locally {: #large-contribution }
```

Author: Accepted suggestion! Thanks heaps!

For larger changes or updates across multiple pages, the easiest approach is to work on a local copy of the documentation and then push your changes to GitHub when ready. This documentation is written in Markdown format and is based on the [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/) theme, which is built on top of the [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org/) static site generator.

!!!tip
    If you are not a member of the [ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI), you will need to **fork** the repository first. A **fork** is your own copy of the repository on GitHub where you can make changes before proposing them back to the main repository.

#### Step 1: Fork the repository

!!! info 

>     [ACCESS-NRI GitHub organisation](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI) members can **skip this step** and clone the original ACCESS-Hive Docs repository directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Step 1: Fork the repository

!!! info
    If you have write access to the [{{hive_docs_repo_name}}]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}) repository, you can skip this step.

A [GitHub fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/about-forks) is your own copy of the repository on GitHub where you can make changes without affecting the original (upstream) repository. These changes can then be merged back into the upstream repository via pull requests.
```

Author: Accepted suggestion! Thanks heaps @atteggiani !

> ![Fork the repository](/assets/contributing_page/fork_repo.png)

Reviewer: Can we add a yellow box to highlight the button to click?

Author: Added image with a yellow box around the fork button. Resolving this conversation. Thanks for the suggestion!

> If you are outside the [ACCESS-NRI GitHub](https://github.com/ACCESS-NRI) organisation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed. Accepted suggestion! Thanks heaps!

> 1. Go to the [ACCESS-Hive Docs]({{hive_docs_repo}}) repository on GitHub. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [{{hive_docs_repo_name}}]({{hive_docs_repo_url}}) repository on GitHub. 
```

Author: Accepted suggestion. Thanks heaps!

> 2. Click **Fork** in the top-right corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click _Fork_ in the top-right corner.
```

Author: Accepted suggestion! Thanks heaps @atteggiani!

> 3. Choose your GitHub account as the destination. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Choose your GitHub account and repo name as the destination (we suggest to keep the original name to avoid confusions). 
```

Author: Accepted suggestions. Thanks heaps!

> 4. Click **Create Fork**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click _Create fork_.
```

Author: Accepted suggestions. Thanks heaps!

> This creates your own copy of the repository. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates your own copy of the repository on GitHub. 
```

Author: Accepted suggestions. Thanks heaps!

#### Step 2: Clone the repository

> **Cloning** creates a local copy of the repository on your computer. Before cloning, open a **terminal** and navigate to the directory where you'd like the repository to be downloaded. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Cloning a repository](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository) creates a local copy of the repository on your computer.
```

Author: Accepted suggestions. Thanks heaps!
